In the start of spring, I wish you to be in good health.
I was deeply grateful when you visited me the other day. I am deeply ashamed of my inadequate welcome to you.
But please pardon my rudeness, I would like to live as time goes by in seclusion here. Though nothing was left, I do not wish to part from Kyogetsu Village.
As for living in the new capital... I do not believe there is a place, nor I am wanted in there.
Nevertheless, I did know you were trying to help me. With that mind, I wrote this letter to appease for your forgiveness.
You once said that you would see justice to our name. I did read the book written and sent by you.
I felt the words in there were too elegant and too critical, yet your impression of Lady Rindou could not be any further from correct.
She was a righteous figure. A proverb can be used to describe her, "A clear stream is avoided by fish"... It was as though she had forgotten how to breathe, to fit the ideal of a noble and proud clanhead of a Samurai Clan.
Thus, she always wondered what is moral, and there always existed those unable to live in her stream. A natural outcome, because even us from that era also viewed Lady Rindou as a heretic. I could not deny that she was incomprehensible to us.
Yet, that might be reason.
I, older brother, and Sir Habaki revered Lady Rindou from the depths of our heart. I believed Sir Soujirou, Sir Yakou, Lady Ryuusui and Lady Shiori also shared our viewpoint.
In that sense, you praised them as heroes and braves and others condemned them as traitors and bandits. However, the truth is but a triviality now that they had become historical figures.
My apology for sounding like lecturing you. I do not dismiss your will. I do want to see the youngsters that are the future of this country to learn the proper history. That is a noble ideal in itself.
How should I express this? Were your students tormented by hunger to worry about tomorrow's food? Were your students tormented by this cold, having nothing but a ragtag kimono to wear? Were your students tormented by loneliness, without a place to belong, much less than to have parents by their side?
None of that is real. I heard about the lack of discrimination based on origin and bloodline. And it was you who spoke how that has become of this country.
Then all is well. I finally saw the day where the dream when I, Kyogetsu Sakuya had as a young girl to become the reality.
In a way, we have attained salvation. My reason to participate in the Eastern Expedition led by Lady Rindou, was only out of that childish naivety...
I would not deny that honor was a reason of my participation. But that was also for survival. I, who was born as an Accursed, viewed that as a minimal necessity to acquire the happiness like a normal human. It went without saying to my older brother, out of his love for me...
No, let stop here. My apology for showing you the sight of an old woman entrenched in her romance.
In any case, what I wish to convey that the world we yearned for in the distant past has become reality. Surely a person lives in the modern world like you must have some dissatisfactions, but that should be something for the modern world to solve. An elderly like myself has no role in that world.  
Still, I also thought about this. Those brilliant days, those everlasting sceneries, and more importantly, those most precious and unforgettable memories...
At the same time, they were so fierce, so charming and contained so much tragedies for me to not want to remember, yet when I took another glance, I felt they were... so beautiful, so joyful, so blissful, almost as though they were a dream.
So, I have a request to the benevolent you, my friend across generations. Would you like to listen to this dreamlike tale that I was about to narrate?
No need to laugh from thinking that you got what I am going to narrate. This is a story that would sound ridiculous even to the people living in the modern world.
That would apply even to you, who must be frowing to this malicious-like bragging. It was, after all, a type of fantasy deviates from the official history, a story of otherness, colored by anecdotes.
It would a marvelous material for a fantasy novel. I would encourage you to turn them into a book if you are confident in your literary talent. I would be more than happy to be a reader.
So, have you prepare? The letter was already long as it is, yet the future letters would get even longer.
I might not be comparable to Sir Yakou, but I used to render older brother to be speechless when it comes to long conversation. Not even I could be confident if you did not give up halfway through.
Lady Shiori and Lady Rindou would likely to summarize as possible. Lady Ryuusui often complained so she might lose the focus very fast. I could not say much about Sir Soujirou. Sir Habaki might as well turning the tale into a comedy show.
Really, I could never be bored of how lovely and be proud of my companions. I did said I would not brag, yet I could not stop it now. I am coming back to the days when I was a young girl.
Indeed, when I am done with writing, I could hear the sound of falling snows. It reminded myself a sense of foreknowing.
Yes, sense of foreknowing. In that era, I did not know this word, to be exact, the concept itself did not exist in this world.
Confusing, right? You must be scratching your head, wondering what nonsense I was spitting. Indeed, if you already felt a sense of discomforting from this alone, I can assure what is coming next would be harder to follow.
Such as, [Samsara] (1), [Ashuraloka] (2), [Ayanata] (3), [Astosananaraka] (4)...  the finality of human, the destination of soul. All of them fits into the concept of "afterlife" from your perspective, whether they do exist or not, they are still falling within the boundary of common knowledge.
But, in the era we live in, they do not, in every sense, exist or be anywhere.
Imagine. A lawless world without punishment, without salvation and without restart. A world that is void of dharma.
Awaits death is, darkness. Faith does not arise, nor fear exists anywhere because of ignorance (avidya).
Human are born with fiety in their nature. Because there is not a higher being observing them, they do not possess shackles to restrain their conducts.
What controls yourself is only yourself.
To speak plainly, everyone were viewing themselves as [Godhead]. That applied to myself, who dwelt in the Cosmos of Kyogetsu Sakuya as its absolute dharma. I am ascertain you are aware how dangerous such a notion was.
[Narcissistic Personality Disorder]... I heard that was the name by modern pathology. I was deeply entranced by the analysis you made on this disease in your book. Because everyone of our era thought that way of living is natural.
According to Sir Yakou, [Maraloka]. This is our story, whom were born into such a world.
He, a mischievous, extragavant, simplistic and drunkard Onmyouji... a person who was most adapted to the [Maraloka] amongst us once said.
God is unneeded.
Lady Rindou once stated.
Human needs God.
Lady Shiori and Sir Soujirou once claimed.
The most qualified shall become God.
Strange, right? Our opinions were so diverse and clashing, that even Lady Ryuusui did not bother to join that debate.
In spite of our conflicting opinions, seeing her attitude trying go along without saying a world was very lovely from my perspective...
Sir Habaki and older brother kept their opinion in silence. So was myself.
I wondered what would be of your thought after finishing this letter, I can see you would request me to continue and unravel this fantastical history more.
Now, it was the start of spring. Under the falling snows just like it is now, everything began from the capital, Hozuma.
Our encounter. Our destiny. Thinking back, perhaps everything had already been decided in that moment.
Akin to the snow vanishes when spring comes...
Akin to the fruitless flowers bloom and scatter like a fleeting dream...